Uttar Pradesh Governor Shrimati Anandiben Patel ji, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ji, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal ji, my colleagues in Parliament, ministers of UP government, all other senior dignitaries associated with the programme, brothers and sisters. This day is going to give a new identity of the 21st century to the glorious past of Indian Railways and enhance the might of India and Indian Railways. Today, we are seeing the largest and modern rail infrastructure project being implemented after independence.

Friends,

Today, when the first goods train ran on the freight corridor route of Khurja-Bhau, one could clearly hear the roar of the new India and Atmanirbhar Bharat. Operation Control Centre at Prayagraj also marks the new potential of new India. It is one of the finest and modern control centres in the world. And, anybody will be proud to know that the technology related to management and data has been prepared in India itself; the Indians have prepared it.

Brothers and sisters

Infrastructure is the biggest source of competence of any nation. The connectivity in infrastructure is like a nation’s veins and arteries. The better these veins are, the healthier and more powerful a nation is. Today, when India is moving fast towards becoming the world's big economic power, excellent connectivity is the priority of the country. With this thought, every aspect of modern connectivity is being focused in India for the past six years. Whether it is highways, railways, airways, waterways or the i-ways -- the five wheels required for the economic speed are being given a boost and speed. The inauguration of a large section of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor is also a major step in this direction.

Friends,

These Dedicated Freight Corridors, if described in general colloquial language, are special tracks and arrangements for goods trains. Why did the country need them? Our farms, industry or markets, they all depend on freight. Somewhere a crop grows; it has to be transported to different parts of the country. It has to be transported to ports for exports. Similarly, raw materials for industries come from somewhere through the sea. Industry goods have to be transported to the market or they have to be transported to the ports for export. The Railways has been the biggest medium for this purpose. As the population grew, the economy grew and the pressure on this freight network also increased. The problem was that both the passenger and goods trains run on the same track in our country. The speed of the goods train is slow. Passenger trains are stopped at stations to give way to goods trains. As a result, the passenger train also fails to reach in time and the goods train is also late. When the speed of the goods train is slow and there are intermittent hindrances, obviously, the cost of transportation will be higher. It directly affects the price of our farming, mineral products and industrial products. Being costly, they are not able to compete in the markets of the country and abroad and lag behind.

Brothers and sisters,

The freight corridor was planned to change this situation. Initially, there is a plan to prepare two Dedicated Freight Corridors. The Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor is connecting Punjab's industrial city of Ludhiana with Dankuni in West Bengal. There are coal mines, thermal power plants and industrial cities in this hundreds of kilometers long route. Feeder routes are also being constructed. On the other hand, the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor connects JNPT in Maharashtra to Dadri in Uttar Pradesh. This corridor of about 1500 kms will have feeder routes for major ports of Mundra, Kandla, Pipavav, Dahej and Hazira in Gujarat. The Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor and Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor are also being developed around these two freight corridors. Similarly, necessary procedures are being completed on a special railway corridor connecting the north to the south and the east to the west.